LibXDiff 0.23 (http://www.xmailserver.org/xdiff-lib.html)

The LibXDiff library implements basic and yet complete functionalities to create
file differences/patches to both binary and text files. The library uses memory
files as file abstraction to achieve both performance and portability. For
binary files, LibXDiff implements both (with some modification) the algorithm
described in File System Support for Delta Compression by Joshua P. MacDonald,
and the algorithm described in Fingerprinting By Random Polynomials by Michael
O. Rabin. While for text files it follows directives described in An O(ND)
Difference Algorithm and Its Variations by Eugene W. Myers. Memory files used by
the library are basically a collection of buffers that store the file content.
There are two different requirements for memory files when passed to diff/patch
functions. Text files for diff/patch functions require that a single line do not
have to spawn across two different memory file blocks. Binary diff/patch
functions require memory files to be compact. A compact memory files is a file
whose content is stored inside a single block. Functionalities inside the
library are available to satisfy these rules. Using the XDL_MMF_ATOMIC memory
file flag it is possible to make writes to not split the written record across
different blocks, while the functions xdl_mmfile_iscompact() ,
xdl_mmfile_compact() and xdl_mmfile_writeallocate() are usefull to test if the
file is compact and to create a compacted version of the file itself. The text
file differential output uses the raw unified output format, by omitting the
file header since the result is always relative to a single compare operation
(between two files). The output format of the binary patch file is proprietary
(and binary) and it is basically a collection of copy and insert commands, like
described inside the MacDonald paper. The library is compatible with almost
every Unix implementation (configure script) and it is also compatible with
Windows through custom (nmake) make files. Examples are available inside the
test subdirectory of the distribution tarball that show how to use the library.
Also, inside the same subdirectory, a regression test in available that tests
the library with random data by requiring a diff followed by a patch and
comparing results. Regression tests ran successfully for days on my Linux,
Solaris, FreeBSD and Windows boxes, and this makes me believe that the library
itself is completely ready for production (despite the version number).
